Add blog posts for React 19 Beta (#6778)
reactjs/react.dev: src/content/blog/2024/04/25/react-19.md

In React 19, we're adding support for rendering document metadata tags in components natively:

```js {5,6}
function BlogPost({post}) {
  return (
    <article>
      <h1>{post.title}</h1>
      <title>{post.title}</title>
      <meta name="author" content="Josh" />
      <link rel="author" href="...Josh's href" />
      <meta name="keywords" content={post.keywords} />
      <p>
        Eee equals em-see-squared...
      </p>
    </article>
  );
}
```

When React renders this component, it will see the `<title>` `<link>` and `<meta>` tags, and automatically hoist them to the `<head>` section of document. By supporting these metadata tags natively, we're able to ensure they work with client-only apps, streaming SSR, and Server Components.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<Note>

#### You may still want a Metadata library {/*you-may-still-want-a-metadata-library*/}

For simple use cases rendering Document Metadata as tags may be suitable but there may still be a role to play for libraries which can offer more powerful features like overriding generic metadata with specific metadata based on the current route. Even if you don't directly render your Metadata, React's new capabilities here will make writing Metadata libraries easier and make integrating them into your React application simpler.

</Note>

```

Author: Added

---
title: "React 19 Beta"
---

> April 25, 2024, by [The React Team](/community/team)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
April 25, 2024 by [The React Team](/community/team)
```

\- Variable input such as `Date.now()` or `Math.random()` which changes each time it's called.
\- Date formatting in a user's locale which doesn't match the server.
\- External changing data without sending a snapshot of it along with the HTML.
\- Invalid HTML tag nesting.{'\n'}
It can also happen if the client has a browser extension installed which messes with the HTML before React loaded.{'\n'}
https://react.dev/link/hydration-mismatch {'\n'}
{'  '}\<App\>
{'    '}\<span\>
{'+    '}Client
{'-    '}Server{'\n'}
{'  '}at throwOnHydrationMismatch
{'  '}...

</ConsoleLogLine>

</ConsoleBlockMulti>

### `<Context>` as a provider {/*context-as-a-provider*/}

In React 19, you can render `<Context>` as a provider instead of `<Context.Provider>`:

```js {5,7}
const ThemeContext = createContext('');

function App({children}) {
  return (
    <ThemeContext value="dark">
      {children}
    </ThemeContext>
  );  
}
```

New Context providers can use `<Context>` and we will be publishing a codemod to convert existing providers. In future versions we will deprecate `<Context.Provider>`.

### Cleanup functions for refs {/*cleanup-functions-for-refs*/}

> We now support returning a cleanup function from `ref` callbacks:

Reviewer 3: on the lower two instances of "ref callback" we don't use the code block on `ref`

i believe in docs we generally use "`ref` callback", though even that is likely inconsistent

```js {7-11}
<input
  ref={(ref) => {
    // ref created

>     // NEW: return a cleanup funtion to reset

Reviewer 3: "funtion" -> "function"

    // the ref when element is removed from DOM.
    return () => {
      // ref cleanup
    };
  }}
/>
```

> When the component unmounts, React will call the cleanup function returned from the ref callback. This works for DOM refs, refs to class components, and `useImperitiveHandle`. 

Reviewer 3: typo: useImperativeHandle

Author: ```suggestion
When the component unmounts, React will call the cleanup function returned from the ref callback. This works for DOM refs, refs to class components, and `useImperativeHandle`. 
```

<Note>

Previously, React would call ref functions with `null` when unmounting the component. If your ref returns a cleanup function, React will now skip this step.

In future versions, we will deprecate calling the ref with `null` when unmounting components.

</Note>

Due to the introduction of ref cleanup functions, returning anything else from a ref callback will now be rejected by TypeScript.

> The fix is usually to stop using implicit returns e.g.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The fix is usually to stop using implicit returns, for example:
```

nit, but for better consistency with the rest of the post

```diff
-<div ref={current => (instance = current)} />
+<div ref={current => {instance = current}} />
```

The original code returned the instance of the `HTMLDivElement` and TypeScript wouldn't know if this was _supposed_ to be a cleanup function or if you didn't want to return a cleanup function.

You can codemod this pattern with [`no-implicit-ref-callback-return

> `](https://github.com/eps1lon/types-react-codemod/#no-implicit-ref-callback-return)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`](https://github.com/eps1lon/types-react-codemod/#no-implicit-ref-callback-return).
```

missing period

### `useDeferredValue` inital value {/*use-deferred-value-initial-value*/}

We've added an `initalValue` option to `useDeferredValue`:

```js [[1, 1, "deferredValue"], [1, 4, "deferredValue"], [2, 4, "''"]]
function Search({deferredValue}) {
  // On inital render the value is ''.
  // Then a re-render is scheduled with the deferredValue.
  const value = useDeferredValue(deferredValue, '');
  
  return (
    <Results query={value} />
  );
}
````

When <CodeStep step={2}>initialValue</CodeStep> is provided, `useDeferredValue` will return it as `value` for the initial render of the component, and scheduled a re-render in the background with the <CodeStep step={1}>deferredValue</CodeStep> returned.

For more, see [`useDeferredValue`](/reference/react/useDeferredValue).

### Support for Document Metadata {/*support-for-metadata-tags*/}

> In HTML, document metadata tags like `<title>` `<link>` and `<meta>` are reserved for placement in the `<head>` section of the document. In React, the component that decides what metadata is appropriate for the app may be very far from the place where you rendere the `<head>` or the no `<head>` is rendered by React at all. In the past, these elements would need to be inserted manually in an effect, or by libraries like [`react-helmet`](github.com/nfl/react-helmet) and required careful handling when server rendering a React application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In HTML, document metadata tags like `<title>`, `<link>`, and `<meta>` are reserved for placement in the `<head>` section of the document. In React, the component that decides what metadata is appropriate for the app may be very far from the place where you render the `<head>` or React does not render the `<head>` at all. In the past, these elements would need to be inserted manually in an effect, or by libraries like [`react-helmet`](github.com/nfl/react-helmet), and required careful handling when server rendering a React application. 
```

In React 19, we're adding support for rendering document metadata tags in components natively:

```js {5,6}
function BlogPost({post}) {
  return (
    <article>
      <h1>{post.title}</h1>
      <title>{post.title}</title>
      <meta name="author" content="Josh" />

>       <link rel="author" href="...Josh's href" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <link rel="author" href="https://twitter.com/joshcstory/" />
```

      <meta name="keywords" content={post.keywords} />
      <p>
        Eee equals em-see-squared...
      </p>
    </article>
  );
}
```

When React renders this component, it will see the `<title>` `<link>` and `<meta>` tags, and automatically hoist them to the `<head>` section of document. By supporting these metadata tags natively, we're able to ensure they work with client-only apps, streaming SSR, and Server Components.

<Note>

#### You may still want a Metadata library {/*you-may-still-want-a-metadata-library*/}

> For simple use cases rendering Document Metadata as tags may be suitable but libraries can offer more powerful features like overriding generic metadata with specific metadata based on the current route. So these feature make it easier for frameworks and libraries like [`react-helmet`](github.com/nfl/react-helmet) to support metadata tags, rather than replace them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simple use cases rendering Document Metadata as tags may be suitable, but libraries can offer more powerful features like overriding generic metadata with specific metadata based on the current route. So these feature make it easier for frameworks and libraries like [`react-helmet`](github.com/nfl/react-helmet) to support metadata tags, rather than replace them.
```

</Note>

For more info, see the docs for [`<title>`](/reference/react-dom/components/title), [`<link>`](/reference/react-dom/components/link), and [`<meta>`](/reference/react-dom/components/meta).

### Support for stylesheets {/*support-for-stylesheets*/}

> Stylesheets, both externally linked (`<link rel="stylesheet" href="...">`) and inline (`<style>...</style>`), require careful positioning in the DOM due to style precedence rules. Building a stylesheet capability that allows for composability within components is hard so users often end up either loading all of their styles far from the components that may depend on them or they use a style library which encapsulates this complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stylesheets, both externally linked (`<link rel="stylesheet" href="...">`) and inline (`<style>...</style>`), require careful positioning in the DOM due to style precedence rules. Building a stylesheet capability that allows for composability within components is hard, so users often end up either loading all of their styles far from the components that may depend on them, or they use a style library which encapsulates this complexity.
```

> In React 19, we're addressing this complexity and providing even deeper integration into Concurrent Rendering on the Client and Streaming Rendering on the Server with built in support for stylesheets. If you tell React what the `precedence` of your stylesheet is React can manage the insertion order of the stylesheet in the DOM and ensure that the stylesheet (if external) is loaded before revealing content that depends on those style rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In React 19, we're addressing this complexity and providing even deeper integration into Concurrent Rendering on the Client and Streaming Rendering on the Server with built in support for stylesheets. If you tell React the `precedence` of your stylesheet it will manage the insertion order of the stylesheet in the DOM and ensure that the stylesheet (if external) is loaded before revealing content that depends on those style rules.
```

```js
function ComponentOne() {
  return (
    <Suspense fallback="loading...">
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="foo" precedence="default" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="bar" precedence="high" />
      <article class="foo-class bar-class">
        High from ComponentOne
      </article>
    </Suspense>
  )
}

function ComponentTwo() {
  return (
    <div>
      Hi from ComponentTwo
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="baz" precedence="default" />  <-- will be inserted between foo & bar
    </div>
  )
}
```

> During Server Side Rendering React will include the stylesheet in the `<head>` which ensures that the browser will not paint until it has loaded. If the stylesheet is discovered late after we've already started streaming React will ensure that the stylesheet is inderted into the `<head>` on the client before revealing the content of a Suspense boundary that depends on that stylesheet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During Server Side Rendering React will include the stylesheet in the `<head>`, which ensures that the browser will not paint until it has loaded. If the stylesheet is discovered late after we've already started streaming, React will ensure that the stylesheet is inserted into the `<head>` on the client before revealing the content of a Suspense boundary that depends on that stylesheet
```

> During Client Side Rendering if newly discovered stylesheets are rendered React will wait for those stylesheets to load before committing the render.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During Client Side Rendering React will wait for newly rendered stylesheets to load before committing the render.
```

> If you render this component from multiple places within your application React will only include the stylesheet once in the document

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you render this component from multiple places within your application React will only include the stylesheet once in the document:
```

```js
function App() {
  return <>
    <ComponentOne />
    ...
    <ComponentOne /> // won't lead to a duplicate stylesheet link in the DOM
  </>
}
```

> For users accustomed to loading stylesheets manually this is an opportunity to locate those stylesheets alongside the components that depend on them allowing for better local reasoning and an easier time ensuring you only load the stylesheets that you actually depend on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For users accustomed to loading stylesheets manually this is an opportunity to locate those stylesheets alongside the components that depend on them allowing for better local reasoning and an easier time ensuring you only load the stylesheets that you actually depend on.
```

> For users that use style libraries or style integrations with bundlers these benefits will these libraries even better by simplifying their implementations, providing better integration with Concurrent Rendering features like Suspense, and eliminating awkward SSR integrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
style libraries and style integrations with bundlers can also adopt this new capability so even if you don't directly render your own stylesheets you can still benefit as your tools are upgraded to use this feature.
```

For more details, read the docs for [`<link>`](/reference/react-dom/components/link) and [`<style>`](/reference/react-dom/components/style).

### Support for async scripts {/*support-for-async-scripts*/}

In HTML normal scripts (`<script src="...">`) and deferred scripts (`<script defer="" src="...">`) load in document order which makes rendering these kinds of scripts deep within your component tree challenging. Async scripts (`<script async="" src="...">`) however will load in arbitrary order.

In React 19 we've included better support for async scripts by allowing you to render them anywhere in your component tree, inside the components that actually depend on the script, without having to manage relocating and deduplicating script instances.

```js
function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <div>
      <script async={true} src="..." />
      Hello World
    </div>
  )
}

function App() {
  <html>
    <body>
      <MyComponent>
      ...
      <MyComponent> // won't lead to duplicate script in the DOM
    </body>
  </html>
}
```

> In all rendering environments async scripts will be deduplicated so that React will only load and execute the script once even if it is rendered by multiple difference components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In all rendering environments async scripts will be deduplicated so that React will only load and execute the script once even if it is rendered by multiple difference components.
```

> In Server Side Rendering async scripts will be included in the `<head>` priorized behind more critical resources that block paint such as stylesheets, fonts, and image preloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Server Side Rendering async scripts will be included in the `<head>` and prioritized behind more critical resources that block paint such as stylesheets, fonts, and image preloads.
```

For more details, read the docs for [`<script>`](/reference/react-dom/components/script).

### Support for preloading Resources {/*support-for-preloading-resources*/}

> During initial document loads and on client side updates the ability to tell the Browser about resources that it will likely need to load as early as possible can have a dramatic effect on percieved page peformance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During initial document load and on client side updates telling the Browser about resources that it will likely need to load as early as possible can have a dramatic effect on page performance.
```

{'  '}at Throws
{'  '}at renderWithHooks
{'  '}...

</ConsoleLogLine>

<ConsoleLogLine level="error">

The above error occurred in the Throws component:
{'  '}at Throws
{'  '}at ErrorBoundary
{'  '}at App{'\n'}
React will try to recreate this component tree from scratch using the error boundary you provided, ErrorBoundary.

</ConsoleLogLine>

</ConsoleBlockMulti>

In React 19, we log a single error with all the error information included:

<ConsoleBlockMulti>

<ConsoleLogLine level="error">

Error: hit
{'  '}at Throws
{'  '}at renderWithHooks
{'  '}...{'\n'}
The above error occurred in the Throws component:
{'  '}at Throws
{'  '}at ErrorBoundary
{'  '}at App{'\n'}
React will try to recreate this component tree from scratch using the error boundary you provided, ErrorBoundary.
{'  '}at ErrorBoundary
{'  '}at App

</ConsoleLogLine>

</ConsoleBlockMulti>

Additionally, we've added two new root options to complement `onRecoverableError`:

- `onCaughtError`: called when React catches an error in an Error Boundary.
- `onUncaughtError`: called when an error is thrown and not caught by an Error Boundary.
- `onRecoverableError`: called when an error is thrown and automatically recovered.

> For more info and examples, see the docs for [`createRoot`](/reference/react-dom/client/createRoot) and [`hydrateRoot`](/reference/react-dom/client/createRoot).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more info and examples, see the docs for [`createRoot`](/reference/react-dom/client/createRoot) and [`hydrateRoot`](/reference/react-dom/client/hydrateRoot).
```

### Custom Element Support {/*support-for-web-components*/}

> Custom Elements have been part of the web platform for a long while now however using them with React has been impractical because React has always treated unrecognized props as attributes rather than properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom Elements have been part of the web platform for a long while now, however using them with React has been impractical because React has always treated unrecognized props as attributes rather than properties.
```

> React 19 adds support for custom elements and passes all tests on [Custom Elements Everywhere](https://custom-elements-everywhere.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React 19 adds support for custom elements and passes all tests on [Custom Elements Everywhere](https://custom-elements-everywhere.com/).
```

> During Server Side Rendering props passed to a custom element will render as attributes if their type is a `"string"`, `"number"`, or the value is `true`. props with type `"object"`, `"symbol"`, `"function"`, or value `false` will be omitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During Server Side Rendering props passed to a custom element will render as attributes if their type is a `"string"`, `"number"`, or the value is `true`. Props with type `"object"`, `"symbol"`, `"function"`, or value `false` will be omitted.
```

During Client Side Rendering props that match a property on the Custom Element instance will be assigned as properties, otherwise they will be assigned as attributes.

> Thanks [Joey Arhar](https://github.com/josepharhar) for driving the design and implementation of Custom Element support in React.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to [Joey Arhar](https://github.com/josepharhar) for driving the design and implementation of Custom Element support in React.
```
